plugins/accelerated-peft/README.md, before:

# FMS Acceleration for Accelerated PeFT Techniques

Currently only supports LoRA-related techniques, but more are in the pipeline to be added:

## Plugins

Plugin | Description | Depends | Loading | Augmentation | Callbacks
--|--|--|--|--|--
[autogptq](./src/fms_acceleration_peft/framework_plugin_autogptq.py) | Loads 4bit GPTQ-LoRA with quantized GPTQ as base | AutoGPTQ | ✅ | ✅
[bnb](./src/fms_acceleration_peft/framework_plugin_bnb.py) | Loads 4bit QLoRA with quantized bitsandbytes Linear4 | Huggingface<br>bitsandbytes | ✅ | ✅


### Key Points
- fix upcasting (resulting in slowdown) issue for `bnb` plugin, originally discovered by inventors of [Unsloth](https://unsloth.ai/blog/mistral-benchmark).
- `bnb` properly configured to work with FSDP following [this guide](https://huggingface.co/docs/bitsandbytes/main/en/fsdp_qlora). 
- `triton_v2` kernels are not yet properly integrated into huggingface optimum.
- `triton_v2` kernels are [the only 4bit kernels that work for training](https://github.com/AutoGPTQ/AutoGPTQ/issues/633).

## Known Issues

- Models with sliding windows (e.g., Mistral, Mixtral) will have [memory and throughout issues](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/issues/30461).
- GPTQ-LORA sometimes observed to have `nan` grad norms in the begining of training, but training proceeds well otherwise.
- `low_cpu_mem_usage` temporarily disabled for AutoGPTQ until bug with `make_sure_no_tensor_in_meta_device` is resolved.
- Requires nightly [AutoGPTQ](https://github.com/AutoGPTQ/AutoGPTQ) until package `> 0.7.1` becomes available
    ```
    pip install git+https://github.com/AutoGPTQ/AutoGPTQ.git
    ```

Commit message:

additional fixes to local implementation of accelerated-peft

plugins/accelerated-peft/README.md, after:

# FMS Acceleration for Accelerated PeFT Techniques

Currently only supports LoRA-related techniques, but more are in the pipeline to be added:

## Plugins

Plugin | Description | Depends | Loading | Augmentation | Callbacks
--|--|--|--|--|--
[autogptq](./src/fms_acceleration_peft/framework_plugin_autogptq.py) | Loads 4bit GPTQ-LoRA with quantized GPTQ as base | AutoGPTQ | ✅ | ✅
[bnb](./src/fms_acceleration_peft/framework_plugin_bnb.py) | Loads 4bit QLoRA with quantized bitsandbytes Linear4 | Huggingface<br>bitsandbytes | ✅ | ✅


### Key Points
- fix upcasting (resulting in slowdown) issue for `bnb` plugin, originally discovered by inventors of [Unsloth](https://unsloth.ai/blog/mistral-benchmark).
- `bnb` properly configured to work with FSDP following [this guide](https://huggingface.co/docs/bitsandbytes/main/en/fsdp_qlora). 
- `triton_v2` kernels are not yet properly integrated into huggingface optimum.
- `triton_v2` kernels are [the only 4bit kernels that work for training](https://github.com/AutoGPTQ/AutoGPTQ/issues/633).

## Known Issues

- Models with sliding windows (e.g., Mistral, Mixtral) will have [memory and throughout issues](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/issues/30461).
- GPTQ-LORA sometimes observed to have `nan` grad norms in the begining of training, but training pr.
- `low_cpu_mem_usage` temporarily disabled for AutoGPTQ until bug with `make_sure_no_tensor_in_meta_device` is resolved.
- The legacy implementation of GPTQ-LORA uses an external AutoGPTQ package, you must ensure the package is installed
    ```
    pip install git+https://github.com/AutoGPTQ/AutoGPTQ.git@ea829c7bbe83561c2b1de26795b6592992373ef7
    ```
- To construct the plugin with the legacy implementation that uses an external AutoGPTQ package, in the configuration object that is passed to the plugin - set `use_external_lib = True` (default is set to False to use the local AutoGPTQ package)
```
    peft:
    quantization: 
        auto_gptq:
        kernel: triton_v2
        from_quantized: True
        use_external_lib: True
```
